KwaZulu-Natal Premier Senzo Mchunu says the people of KwaZulu-Natal must all rise up and condemn those who make inflammatory statements under the guise of the freedom of speech. We think that calling for the removal of a sitting President through a barrel of a gun is opportunistic, reckless and shows immaturity. A ballot box is the only weapon that must be used. The province of KwaZulu-Natal not long ago emerged from a very difficult and devastating period of low intensity politically motivated warfare. We are all aware of the huge amounts of sorrow, grief, loss, displacements and several other horrors this violence brought to the citizens of this province. We do not wish to see a return to that state of lawlessness which saw the losses of thousands, mostly innocent lives. There are a few trigger-happy and stubborn elements which are responsible for a wave of crime. They will take advantage of such inflammatory statements thereby reversing the gains we have made. The people of KwaZulu-Natal have worked hard to ensure peace and stability and we must jealousy protect our freedom and democracy against unruly elements. Over the past 23 years, we have invested more in social infrastructure such as education and health and have built transport networks that have become catalysts for socio-economic development. KwaZulu-Natal is now characterized by stability and economic growth. This province has been transformed into a destination of choice for global investors and holidaymakers from all over South Africa and the globe. When the ANC took over few years ago, we took a firm stand that KZN would not become a destination for foreign direct investment if there was continuing political violence with leaders of political parties often advancing their narrow political interests. We have never looked back! The reason why we fought to dismantle apartheid was because we wanted to live in a free and democratic state. It is clear to all now that unless something drastic is done, crime will become a threat to our democracy and freedom. There is an increasing number of South Africans who feel unsafe even in familiar environment. It is often the sheer brutality and violent nature of the crime that makes the declining statistics unnoticeable. We must say with one voice that, we love our freedom so much that we are not prepared to allow crime to stand between us and our spirit of freedom, said Mchunu. comments