A report carried by The Sunday Times in the UK revealed that scientists are close to finding a cure for HIV virus.  A British man is said to be the first person in the world to be cured of HIV using a new therapy that is regarded as a medical breakthrough. Five British Universities and the UK’s National Health Service are behind this research which could change lives of many people who are living with the virus. “This is one of the first serious attempts at a full cure for HIV. We are exploring the real possibility of curing HIV. ” said Mark Samuels who is the MD of the National Institute for Health Research Office for Clinical Research Infrastructure. HIV is very difficult to treat because it targets the immune system of the body, splicing itself into the DNA of T-cells so that they not only ignore the disease, but turn into viral factories which reproduce even more  virus. The new therapy basically works in two phases. Firstly, a vaccine helps the body recognise the HIV-infected cells so it can clear them out. Secondly, a new drug called Vorinostat activates the dormant T-cells so they can be spotted by the immune system.  The first unidentified patient who took part in the trial said: “It would be great if a cure has happened. My last blood test was a couple of weeks ago and there is no detectable virus. I took part in the trial to help others as well as myself. It would be a massive achievement if, after all these years, something is found to cure people of this disease. The fact that I was a part of that would be incredible.” “This therapy is specifically designed to clear the body of all HIV viruses, including dormant ones. It has worked in the laboratory and there is good evidence it will work in humans too, but we must stress we are still a long way from any actual therapy. “We will continue with medical tests for the next five years and at the moment we are not recommending stopping Art but in the future depending on the test results we may explore this,” said Professor Sarah Fidler, a consultant physician at Imperial College London. 