Former finance minister Trevor Manuel is a subject of Hawks investigation relating to SARS contract worth R100 million, Citizen report suggested yesterday. A criminal case of ‘corruption and irregularities’ has been laid against Manuel and his successor and former Sars commissioner Pravin Gordhan and Hore. Hore is former Sars general manager of strategy, modernisation and technology. The matter has also been referred to the new Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. According to the report Trevor Manuel allegedly approved a contract which is currently standing at R1 billion without following due tender process. The tender was awarded to Barone, Budge & Dominick (BB&D). Manuel was recently accused of leading a campaign that saw Future Growth pulling out funding from State Owned Enterprises. “The most troubling factor is that the decision by Futuregrowth implicates Treasury. Links between the decision of Futuregrowth and factional battles inside ANC cant not be discounted. For instance, Trevor Manuel who is the former minister of finance has come out publicity to support Pravin Gordhan, is also the Chairman of Old Mutual a major shareholder in Futuregrowth. Old Mutual source lot of funding from within the Treasury system such as PIC and IDC. This creates a potential unethical situation where Treasury funds are indirectly being used to punish SOEs. Futuregrowth has in its assets funds sourced from the public through the shareholding of Old Mutual. It’s not a small matter that Trevor Manaual is Chairman of Old Mutual.” said BLF in a statement. “A reasonable inference can be made that Futuregrowth withdrawal of funds is at the behest of its major shareholding partner Old Mutual. This would mean that Treasury funds are being used to fight factional battle but more importantly to create a massive uncertainty in the general economy which can be seen as sabotage. The demise or deepening of the crisis of SOEs as a result of the sudden withdrawal of credit lines would lead to strengthening the calls for privatization, a policy option favored by the pro-business faction. This is tantamount to sabotaging the economy to impose particular policy outcomes.” 